# Shop The Look

End-to-end fashion product recommendation engine based on visual similarity of items.

## Introduction

<p align="justify>The rise of e-commerce websites in India has led to an increase in online shopping throughout the country. Fashion items are the most sought after in the e-commerce market. A robust, effective, and efficient recommendation system for fashion items could lead to an increase in revenue, better customer engagement, and experience. What makes this approach novel is the ability to detect multiple products from a given Product Display page and recommend similar items to the user. A Product Display Page (PDP), is a web-page that presents an image of the product/products worn by a model or a standalone picture of the product in a plain background. This approach helps the user to not only look for the relevant item in a single category but also to match those items with other items that go well with the specified product. The proposed solution involves a system with various modules that carry specific tasks that help in achieving the overall goal. The first module that consists of the Human Key Point Detection, looks for specific human key points like the ankle and the eyes in order to classify the image as a full-shot image i.e. an image that consists of the full body of a model. The next module is the Pose-Detector, which determines the pose/orientation of the model in the image. The pose can either be front, back, left, right or detailed. The image containing the front pose of the model is then fed to the next module, it’s an Object Detection module trained to identify objects from these broad categories - top-wear, bottom-wear, outer-wear, skirts, dresses, footwear, and bags. The goal of this module is not just the identification of these objects in the image but also to localize the objects with bounding-boxes. Once the bounding boxes are obtained for a certain object, that part of the image is cropped and the semantic embeddings for the cropped image are obtained, which will help in identifying similar products from the catalog/database of products whose semantic embeddings are already known. This system helps in automatically and efficiently recommending new items to a user who has selected or shown interest in a certain product display page.</p>
